README.md, before:


Axemblr Provisionr
==================

*Simple Service for Managing Pools of 10s or 100s of Virtual Machines*

With Provisionr we want to solve the problem of cloud portability by hiding completely the API and only focusing on building a cluster that matches the same set of assumptions on all clouds, assumptions like: running a specific operating system (e.g. Ubuntu LTS), having the same set of pre-installed packages and binaries, sane dns settings (forward & reverse ip resolution - as needed for [Hadoop](http://hadoop.apache.org/)), ntp settings, networking settings, ssh admin access, vpn access etc.

Features
--------

* Can provision 10s or 100s of virtual machines across multiple clouds
* Fully persistent granular internal workflows based on [Activiti](http://activiti.org/)
* The application server can be restarted at any time with no impact
* Has a modular architecture based on OSGi and [Apache Karaf](http://karaf.apache.org/)
* Can be used as an interactive tool or as a REST service (work in progress) 

How does it look like?
----------------------

For each cloud provider we define an Activiti pool management process similar to this:

![Sample pool management process](http://people.apache.org/~asavu/sample.bpmn20.png)

Who is behind this?
-------------------

Core developers:

* Andrei Savu - asavu@axemblr.com - [LinkedIn](http://www.linkedin.com/in/sandrei), [Github](https://github.com/andreisavu)
* Ioan Eugen Stan - ieugen@axemblr.com - [LinkedIn](http://www.linkedin.com/in/ieugen), [Github](https://github.com/ieugen)

License
-------

Apache License Version 2.0
http://apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.txt

Supported cloud providers
-------------------------

We are working on making all this run as expected on [Amazon EC2](http://aws.amazon.com/ec2/) & [CloudStack](http://incubator.apache.org/cloudstack/) 

How to create a distribution?
-----------------------------

You can build a binary release by running:

    $ ./scripts/create_distribution.sh 

And you will find the .tar.gz file in:

    karaf/assembly/target/com.axemblr.provisionr-*.tar.gz

How to run?
-----------

Extract the custom Karaf distribution:

    $ cd karaf/assembly/target/
    $ tar xvfz com.axemblr.provisionr-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.tar.gz
    $ cd com.axemblr.provisionr-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT

Start and configure the Amazon provisionr:

    $ ./bin/provisionr
    provisionr [0.0.1-SNAPSHOT] $ config:edit com.axemblr.provisionr.amazon
    provisionr [0.0.1-SNAPSHOT] $ config:proplist
        service.pid = com.axemblr.provisionr.amazon
        secretKey = secret
        felix.fileinstall.filename = file:[...]/etc/com.axemblr.provisionr.amazon.cfg
        region = us-east-1
        accessKey = access
    provisionr [0.0.1-SNAPSHOT] $ config:propset accessKey "XXXXXXX"
    provisionr [0.0.1-SNAPSHOT] $ config:propset secretKey "XXXXXXX"
    provisionr [0.0.1-SNAPSHOT] $ config:update
    provisionr [0.0.1-SNAPSHOT] $ config:list "(service.pid=com.axemblr.provisionr.amazon)"

Create a pool:

    provisionr [0.0.1-SNAPSHOT] $ provisionr:create --id amazon --key mypool --size 2 --hardware-type m1.small
    provisionr [0.0.1-SNAPSHOT] $ provisionr:pools 
    Pool{provider=Provider{id='amazon', endpoint='', accessKey='XXXXXXX', options='{region=us-east-1}'}, 
    network=Network{type=default, ingress=[Rule{cidr=0.0.0.0/0, ports=(-1?-1], protocol=ICMP}, 
    Rule{cidr=0.0.0.0/0, ports=[22?22], protocol=TCP}], options={}}, adminAccess=AdminAccess{username='andreisavu', 
    publicKey='ssh-rsa ....'}, software=Software{baseOperatingSystem='default', files={}, 
    packages=[git-core, vim], options={}}, hardware=Hardware{type='t1.micro', options={}}, minSize=1, 
    cacheBaseImage=false, expectedSize=1, bootstrapTimeInSeconds=900, options={}}
    Business Key: mypool

You should see an Activiti process in execution:

    provisionr [0.0.1-SNAPSHOT] $ activiti:list

    BPMN Deployments
    ----------------
     ID   Name                               Deployment Time         
    [1  ][com.axemblr.provisionr.amazon    ][Dec 13, 2012 1:52:05 PM]
    [5  ][com.axemblr.provisionr.cloudstack][Dec 13, 2012 1:52:07 PM]

    BPMN Process Definitions
    -------------------------
     Definition ID   Name            Ver  Resource                                
    [amazon:1:4    ][Amazon Process][1  ][OSGI-INF/activiti/amazon.bpmn20.xml    ]
    [cloudstack:1:8][cloudstack    ][1  ][OSGI-INF/activiti/cloudstack.bpmn20.xml]

    History of BPMN Process Instances
    ---------------------------------
     Def  Ins  Sta  End 

    Active BPMN Process Instances
    -----------------------------
     Definition  Ins  Executions    
    [amazon:1:4][9  ][13,14,16,19,9]

Make sure you also check the Activiti Explorer at: 

    http://localhost:8181/activiti-explorer/

If you want to manage Apache Karaf you can access the webconsole at

    http://localhost:8181/system/console

And don't forget to destroy the pool

    provisionr [0.0.1-SNAPSHOT] $ provisionr:destroy --id amazon --key mypool

How to build?
-------------

Maven as usual:

    $ mvn clean install 

This will download dependencies, compile the sources and run unit tests and some of the integration tests (karaf feature install)

How to test?
------------

All the unit tests are executed as part of the normal build

You can run tests against a specific cloud provider for individual activities by running:

    $ ./scripts/activities_test.sh ID # (amazon or cloudstack)

Or you can the test the pool management process as a whole by running:

    $ ./scripts/process_test.sh ID # (amazon or cloudstack) 

Your cloud provider credentials should be in ~/.m2/settings.xml or sent as system properties

```xml
<profiles>
    <profile>
        <id>provisionr-credentials</id>
        <activation><activeByDefault>true</activeByDefault></activation>
        <properties>
            <test.cloudstack.provider.accessKey>cs-key</test.cloudstack.provider.accessKey>
            <test.cloudstack.provider.secretKey>cs-secret</test.cloudstack.provider.secretKey>
            <test.cloudstack.provider.endpoint>...</test.cloudstack.provider.endpoint>
            <test.cloudstack.provider.zoneId>1</test.cloudstack.provider.zoneId>
            <test.cloudstack.provider.templateId>3012</test.cloudstack.provider.templateId>
            <test.cloudstack.provider.serviceOffering>105</test.cloudstack.provider.serviceOffering>

            <test.amazon.provider.accessKey>xxxxx</test.amazon.provider.accessKey>
            <test.amazon.provider.secretKey>xxxxx</test.amazon.provider.secretKey>
            <test.amazon.provider.region>us-east-1</test.amazon.provider.region>
        </properties>
    </profile>
</profiles>
```

Thanks!

Commit message:

Added images for shell and activiti explorer

README.md, after:


Axemblr Provisionr
==================

*Simple Service for Managing Pools of 10s or 100s of Virtual Machines*

With Provisionr we want to solve the problem of cloud portability by hiding completely the API and only focusing on building a cluster that matches the same set of assumptions on all clouds, assumptions like: running a specific operating system (e.g. Ubuntu LTS), having the same set of pre-installed packages and binaries, sane dns settings (forward & reverse ip resolution - as needed for [Hadoop](http://hadoop.apache.org/)), ntp settings, networking settings, ssh admin access, vpn access etc.

Features
--------

* Can provision 10s or 100s of virtual machines across multiple clouds
* Fully persistent granular internal workflows based on [Activiti](http://activiti.org/)
* The application server can be restarted at any time with no impact
* Has a modular architecture based on OSGi and [Apache Karaf](http://karaf.apache.org/)
* Can be used as an interactive tool or as a REST service (work in progress) 

How does it look like?
----------------------

For each cloud provider we define an Activiti pool management process similar to this:

![Sample pool management process](http://people.apache.org/~asavu/sample.bpmn20.png)

You can use Activiti Explorer to inspect the process while running:

![Activiti Explorer](http://people.apache.org/~asavu/explorer.png)

... and manage everything from an interactive shell:

![Shell](http://people.apache.org/~asavu/shell.png)

Who is behind this?
-------------------

Core developers:

* Andrei Savu - asavu@axemblr.com - [LinkedIn](http://www.linkedin.com/in/sandrei), [Github](https://github.com/andreisavu)
* Ioan Eugen Stan - ieugen@axemblr.com - [LinkedIn](http://www.linkedin.com/in/ieugen), [Github](https://github.com/ieugen)

License
-------

Apache License Version 2.0
http://apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.txt

Supported cloud providers
-------------------------

We are working on making all this run as expected on [Amazon EC2](http://aws.amazon.com/ec2/) & [CloudStack](http://incubator.apache.org/cloudstack/) 

How to create a distribution?
-----------------------------

You can build a binary release by running:

    $ ./scripts/create_distribution.sh 

And you will find the .tar.gz file in:

    karaf/assembly/target/com.axemblr.provisionr-*.tar.gz

How to run?
-----------

Extract the custom Karaf distribution:

    $ cd karaf/assembly/target/
    $ tar xvfz com.axemblr.provisionr-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.tar.gz
    $ cd com.axemblr.provisionr-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT

Start and configure the Amazon provisionr:

    $ ./bin/provisionr
    provisionr [0.0.1-SNAPSHOT] $ config:edit com.axemblr.provisionr.amazon
    provisionr [0.0.1-SNAPSHOT] $ config:proplist
        service.pid = com.axemblr.provisionr.amazon
        secretKey = secret
        felix.fileinstall.filename = file:[...]/etc/com.axemblr.provisionr.amazon.cfg
        region = us-east-1
        accessKey = access
    provisionr [0.0.1-SNAPSHOT] $ config:propset accessKey "XXXXXXX"
    provisionr [0.0.1-SNAPSHOT] $ config:propset secretKey "XXXXXXX"
    provisionr [0.0.1-SNAPSHOT] $ config:update
    provisionr [0.0.1-SNAPSHOT] $ config:list "(service.pid=com.axemblr.provisionr.amazon)"

Create a pool:

    provisionr [0.0.1-SNAPSHOT] $ provisionr:create --id amazon --key mypool --size 2 --hardware-type m1.small
    provisionr [0.0.1-SNAPSHOT] $ provisionr:pools 
    Pool{provider=Provider{id='amazon', endpoint='', accessKey='XXXXXXX', options='{region=us-east-1}'}, 
    network=Network{type=default, ingress=[Rule{cidr=0.0.0.0/0, ports=(-1?-1], protocol=ICMP}, 
    Rule{cidr=0.0.0.0/0, ports=[22?22], protocol=TCP}], options={}}, adminAccess=AdminAccess{username='andreisavu', 
    publicKey='ssh-rsa ....'}, software=Software{baseOperatingSystem='default', files={}, 
    packages=[git-core, vim], options={}}, hardware=Hardware{type='t1.micro', options={}}, minSize=1, 
    cacheBaseImage=false, expectedSize=1, bootstrapTimeInSeconds=900, options={}}
    Business Key: mypool

You should see an Activiti process in execution:

    provisionr [0.0.1-SNAPSHOT] $ activiti:list

    BPMN Deployments
    ----------------
     ID   Name                               Deployment Time         
    [1  ][com.axemblr.provisionr.amazon    ][Dec 13, 2012 1:52:05 PM]
    [5  ][com.axemblr.provisionr.cloudstack][Dec 13, 2012 1:52:07 PM]

    BPMN Process Definitions
    -------------------------
     Definition ID   Name            Ver  Resource                                
    [amazon:1:4    ][Amazon Process][1  ][OSGI-INF/activiti/amazon.bpmn20.xml    ]
    [cloudstack:1:8][cloudstack    ][1  ][OSGI-INF/activiti/cloudstack.bpmn20.xml]

    History of BPMN Process Instances
    ---------------------------------
     Def  Ins  Sta  End 

    Active BPMN Process Instances
    -----------------------------
     Definition  Ins  Executions    
    [amazon:1:4][9  ][13,14,16,19,9]

Make sure you also check the Activiti Explorer at: 

    http://localhost:8181/activiti-explorer/

If you want to manage Apache Karaf you can access the webconsole at

    http://localhost:8181/system/console

And don't forget to destroy the pool

    provisionr [0.0.1-SNAPSHOT] $ provisionr:destroy --id amazon --key mypool

How to build?
-------------

Maven as usual:

    $ mvn clean install 

This will download dependencies, compile the sources and run unit tests and some of the integration tests (karaf feature install)

How to test?
------------

All the unit tests are executed as part of the normal build

You can run tests against a specific cloud provider for individual activities by running:

    $ ./scripts/activities_test.sh ID # (amazon or cloudstack)

Or you can the test the pool management process as a whole by running:

    $ ./scripts/process_test.sh ID # (amazon or cloudstack) 

Your cloud provider credentials should be in ~/.m2/settings.xml or sent as system properties

```xml
<profiles>
    <profile>
        <id>provisionr-credentials</id>
        <activation><activeByDefault>true</activeByDefault></activation>
        <properties>
            <test.cloudstack.provider.accessKey>cs-key</test.cloudstack.provider.accessKey>
            <test.cloudstack.provider.secretKey>cs-secret</test.cloudstack.provider.secretKey>
            <test.cloudstack.provider.endpoint>...</test.cloudstack.provider.endpoint>
            <test.cloudstack.provider.zoneId>1</test.cloudstack.provider.zoneId>
            <test.cloudstack.provider.templateId>3012</test.cloudstack.provider.templateId>
            <test.cloudstack.provider.serviceOffering>105</test.cloudstack.provider.serviceOffering>

            <test.amazon.provider.accessKey>xxxxx</test.amazon.provider.accessKey>
            <test.amazon.provider.secretKey>xxxxx</test.amazon.provider.secretKey>
            <test.amazon.provider.region>us-east-1</test.amazon.provider.region>
        </properties>
    </profile>
</profiles>
```

Thanks!
